(gentle music)
♫ Lights, camera ♫
- Hi everyone, how's it going?
So welcome to another DIY Sunday
and today I am going
to show you how to make
a kimono/shawl top.
This is really pretty if you're
going to a music festival
this summertime and you
want to put something
over your tank top or as a beach cover-up.
You can wear this for day or evening
depending on the choice
of fabric you choose.
So this is something you can
definitely get creative with.
So I have my angle ruler
here which I am going to,
just make sure the sides are cut evenly
because as you know, when
you go to a fabric store,
they never cut your fabric straight.
For some reason, they're just like
whoop choo choo choo.
So here I have the wrong side facing out
and the right side inside
of the folded fabric.
Over on this side is the folded side
and then over on this side is the opening.
So that's how I have my fabric laid out.
All right so to start, find you midpoint
and measure it downward.
Make sure both sides are even.
Then cut a straight line across like so.
This way you will have two pieces
that are the same width and length.
All right, so now onto the sleeves
and there are two ways of doing this.
You can one, leave this as is
which is the easier option,
or two if you want to give this
more of a kimono-inspired look,
then what I would suggest
for you to do is draw
an upside down L at the
bottom left and right corner,
just like what I'm doing here.
Basically this will measure out to be
six and a half inches
in and 16 inches down.
Once you draw out that
L shape of the sleeves,
cut that out.
All right guys, so I hope that last step
wasn't so difficult.
Now we're going to
finish all the raw edges
by folding it in half an inch.
So take half an inch of the raw edges
and fold it in toward the wrong side.
You can either pin or press
it down with a hot iron.
Here I first started and experimented
with the gluing method because I wanted
to show you guys how this would work
if you were to use the gluing method.
Now for my specific type of fabric,
it didn't work quite
effectively or efficiently
as it would with a sewing machine
but I want to just give you
guys an idea how it would look.
Here I am just using a sewing machine
since it gave me better results
and it was a lot quicker.
After you're done finishing your edges,
it's now time to take
your two pieces of fabric
and lay them together, just
like how I have it here.
The next step is to pick
up the two top layers
and fold them to the sides.
Now you should have the
back of the kimono shawl
facing you and what
you're going to do next
is pin the right sides together.
What you see here is
the inside of the shawl
and then on the outside it will look
something like this once it's finished.
After you're done pinning, go ahead
and sew the two seams together.
Okay, so if you are
leaving the shawl top as is
without the cut out
sleeves, your next step
should be measure from the
fold line down 18 inches
and then just make a
marking with your pin.
From the 18-inch mark,
what you're going to do
is either glue or sew the
seam allowance together
down to the hem which is
the bottom of the shawl.
If you're going to be attempting to make
the kimono-inspired
sleeves, then basically
do all the same steps by
finishing the raw edges
and right when you're ready
to sew in the sleeves,
have the right sides facing together
just like what I have here
and then sew along the
upside down L shape.
After you sew in the sleeves
and the sides together,
you're basically going
to repeat the same steps
that you did with the
other kimono shawl top.
You're going to attach the center together
with the right sides facing each other.
Pin it and then sew along the back seam.
Once you're done sewing,
turn this inside out,
steam it, or iron it so that way
all the wrinkles can be gone.
And that is it, you can now wear
your new shawl kimono top.
I hope you guys enjoyed this video.
If you do, don't forget
to give it a thumbs up
and don't forget to come back every week
for more weekly videos.
Thank you guys so much for watching
and I will talk to you next time, ciao.